# Zero Trust Migration
NIST SP 800-207 defines Zero Trust (ZT) as “the term for an evolving set of cybersecurity paradigms that move defenses from static, network-based perimeters to focus on users, assets, and resources,” with a Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA) defined as a security design that is reliant on ZT principles “to plan industrial and enterprise infrastructure and workflows.” While traditional cybersecurity principles focus on the use of perimeter-based defenses, ZT assumes that attackers and threats already exist within an enterprise environment; because of this, “there is no implicit trust granted to assets or user accounts based solely on their physical or network location (i.e., local area networks versus the internet) or based on asset ownership (enterprise or personally owned),” and risks to assets and business functions must be continuously assessed and analyzed.

As one of the nation’s premier federally funded research and development centers, the Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering Institute (SEI) has historically spearheaded the generation of new cybersecurity technologies and guidance for both government and private sector organizations to adopt and reference. Given the rise in prominence of ZT, SEI has the opportunity to develop a key reference for government and private enterprises to consider as they migrate to ZTA. Such a product can facilitate and streamline the successful implementation of ZT security models across organizations in the United States, thus minimizing the time and resources required to implement ZT controls, minimizing the the occurrence of future cybersecurity incidents, and ultimately, minimizing negative economic and reputational impacts suffered by companies as a result of an incident.

This project aims to create a formalized method for organizations to select and implement ZT controls. This solution will assist organizations in ranking and prioritizing NIST controls relevant to ZT. The optimal outcome for this capstone would be a mathematical model that can assess organizations and quantify what ZT controls should be implemented. This method will provide organizations with a mathematical process to select ZT controls and optimize an organization's risk management strategy. If a mathematical approach is not possible, then the project's outcome should be a formalized method based on industry data to help organizations select and implement ZT controls based on their needs. In each outcome, the final product will provide custom guidance to every organization on which ZT controls need to be implemented based on their organization's profile. The final objective is to publish this project as a public tool that any organization could use to select and implement its own ZTA. The project team will thoroughly research and study ZT to become future ZT subject matter experts to achieve this goal.

The project team will conduct its own research of NIST SP 800-53, 800-207, and other ZT publications. This analysis will be utilized to create a decision tree that can assist organizations in selecting the appropriate controls to implement given their respective business needs. The project team will research different mathematical models and algorithms to use for control rankings, and utilize a selected algorithm for determining controls to implement against various security risks. This product is meant to quantitatively inform organizations on how to prioritize control selection and implementation. 
